 Here are a dozen easy, effective ways each one of us can make a difference:

1. Speak up!
What’s the single biggest way you can make an impact on global climate change? “Talk to your friends and family, and make sure your representatives are making good decisions,” experts says.
By voicing your concerns—via social media or, better yet, directly to your elected officials—you send a message that you care about the warming world.
Encourage Congress to enact new laws that limit carbon emissions and require polluters to pay for the emissions they produce. 
“The main reason elected officials do anything difficult is because their constituents make them,” experts says.
You can help protect public lands, stop offshore drilling, and more here.
2. Power your home with renewable energy.
Choose a utility company that generates at least half its power from wind or solar and has been certified by Green-e Energy, an organization that vets renewable energy options.
If that isn’t possible for you, take a look at your electric bill; many utilities now list other ways to support renewable sources on their monthly statements and websites.
3. Weatherize, weatherize, weatherize.
“Building heating and cooling are among the biggest uses of energy,” experts says.
Indeed, heating and air-conditioning account for almost half of home energy use.
You can make your space more energy efficient by sealing drafts and ensuring it’s adequately insulated.
You can also claim federal tax credits for many energy-efficiency home improvements.
5. Reduce water waste.
Saving water reduces carbon pollution, too.
That's because it takes a lot of energy to pump, heat, and treat your water.
So take shorter showers, turn off the tap while brushing your teeth, and switch to WaterSense-labeled fixtures and appliances.
The EPA estimates that if just one out of every 100 American homes were retrofitted with water-efficient fixtures, about 100 million kilowatt-hours of electricity per year would be saved—avoiding 80,000 tons of global warming pollution.
6. Actually eat the food you buy—and make less of it meat.
Approximately 10 percent of U.S. energy use goes into growing, processing, packaging, and shipping food—about 40 percent of which just winds up in the landfill.
“If you’re wasting less food, you’re likely cutting down on energy consumption,” experts says.
And since livestock products are among the most resource-intensive to produce, eating meat-free meals can make a big difference, too.
these six ways can actually help in improving the word and make a real difference and save the human being from being called a extinct creature just as dianasore.



